---
title: Anti-Agile flak
layout: post
---

There were a couple of [interesting][1] [posts][2] on InfoQ last week about
problems with Agile. First, a few points from Mark Lines' [post][3] Here's one
of his 'common sense improvements' to Agile:

> ...the Unified Process breaks a project up into 4 distinct Phases, after
which the iterations are named.  In this way, stakeholders can know how the
project is progressing...Other agile methodologies simply number their
iterations sequentially.  Being in iteration 4 tells me nothing about the
progress of the project towards completion of its initial vision.

Here Kai is mostly making an informative statement about his flavor of Unified
Process, but ends it with a dig at Agile iteration numbers.
Agile projects provide other artifacts for getting a high level picture of the
status of the project such as burn down charts.  Iteration numbers are more
useful as historical markers.  If you want a detailed view of an Agile
project's status then attend an iteration planning meeting. His point here is
like saying "My new car is better than yours because I put the blinker at the
top of the steering column.  You don't have anything at the top of your
steering column!" Mark also lists many issues that Agile projects have to face
such as resistance to pair programming, mandated bureaucracy, insistence that
projects cannot be executed independently, and perceived difficulty in
frequent deployments.  He claims that Agile projects often trivialize or
ignore these realities. In my experience we will fight against these issues.
If the fight cannot be won or is not worth it then we give up.  There are
times when some of these issues cannot be overcome.  Some projects must take a
dependency on other ongoing projects and sometimes you can't deploy
frequently.  But to fight against these issues is not trivializing or ignoring
them, quite the opposite: we are acknowledging and addressing them. Now on to
Kai Gilb's [post][4] Kai makes two claims (so far, his post is only at part 2
of 7 as I write this): 

**_Agile does not focus on stakeholder value_**

To make this point he shows a diagram that represents a Scrum workflow (from
here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Scrum_process.svg][5]) Nowhere on
this diagram does it mention stakeholder value.  It's just a product backlog
going into a sprint backlog, going through development and producing working
software. To assert that this means Scrum doesn't focus on delivering value
you would have to intentionally ignore the creation of the product and sprint
backlogs.  It's almost as if he stumbled on to this lone diagram and said
"Hey, there's no mention of value here, I can use this to say Scrum doesn't
focus on value!"

**_Agile 'baby talk' kills developer creativity _**

For this point he uses the following user story as an example: "As a
buyer, I want to place a book in the shopping cart" While this story does come
from some Scrum training materials it is used in the context of describing a
product backlog, not how to create a story.  So, I'd agree with him if this
were your typical user story, but it isn't.  At best this is the kind of story
crafted and accepted by an inexperienced team.  It doesn't talk about the
business value it would provide.  Doing so would serve to both justify its
existence and help developers think of appropriate solutions.  Also, the story
goes too far by prescribing an implementation of a desired function instead of
stating the desired function. I suppose these kinds of posts are common (both
the ones I'm responding to and mine) so I probably won't make another post
like this.  However I would gladly continue a dialog along these lines if
anyone is interested.

   [1]: http://www.infoq.com/news/2010/03/open-up-debate

   [2]: http://www.infoq.com/news/2010/03/serious-flaws-agile-scrum

   [3]: http://agile.dzone.com/news/agile-development-grows

   [4]: http://gilb.com/blogpost111-7-truths-about-Agile-and-Scrum-that-people-don-t-want-to-hear-Part-0-of-7

   [5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Scrum_process.svg

